Why?
The cross-platform product has a huge functionality, which every year becomes more and more. After a while, users began to encounter difficulties in interacting with the interface.

Challenge
This product is used in many areas, including medical and financial solutions. The interface should be clean, neat and understandable to everyone.

Design Process
I suggested User Research based on existing product to identify strengths and weakness of the current product.

​The process was divided into two weeks:

1 week - product discovery phase to perform customer Interview and product overview.

2 week - remote and in-person user interviews to collect user feedbacks, pain points and needs.

Research & Discovery
Search for hidden skeletons:

To understand what problems users experience when using the product I decided to track following UX metrics:

Happiness

Engagement

Adoption

Retention

Task success

Accessibility matters:

In the process of analyzing the product, accessibility testing was also conducted according to Section 508 guidelines (GSA Government-wide IT Accessibility Program).

The list of items that do not match the accessibility guidelines was created. 

The first results:

Based on the Customer and User Research results, we have prepared personas, customer journey maps and a list of problem points that need to be improved.

Introduced a UX-driven design workflow:

New design process and documentation was created and demonstrated for Product/Engineering/QA and I walked them through examples of healthy UX workflows.

Design & Functionality
The fun begins:

The next step was to prepare the first wireframes based on our solutions, create interactive prototype and test it with real users.

Visual design:

Even a small team of designers can struggle with consistency across many design documents covering multiple products.

​I created a shared UI library and Design System with all design elements and a description of the behavior so engineering received consistent and predictable static mockups.

Result
As a result, we have got a comprehensive, healthy, and user-friendly product that is currently being used by:

300 healthcare units

500 financial institutions

Millions of users around the world