Why?
The cross-platform product has a huge functionality, which every year becomes more and more. After a while, users began to encounter difficulties in interacting with the interface.

Challenge
The challenge was to design wearable app that logs activity level information collected from the watch sensors and it's integration with a mobile app for one of the worldwide leading manufactures of medical devices, dedicated to transforming lives through innovative medical solutions. 

Research & Discovery
Problems at the very beggining: 

Due to medical and privacy restrictions, we had a limited number of potential end-users who agreed to participate in testing and answer questions.

These individuals were potential users of the product.

Based on the design brief, user and stakeholder interviews, We gathered information to create user personas.

Hardware strikes back:

After studying users, collecting a backlog, interviewing the client, and conducting in-depth market research, we realized that one of the challenges would be battery consumption.

People don't want to charge their devices (watches) too often.

A decision was made to investigate the hardware part of the devices, specifications, and manufacturer recommendations to understand how to minimize battery consumption.

From this, we derived several important points and recommendations to save the battery life and be more inclusive:

simplified layout

sensible usage of colours and graphics

fine lines and fonts

The first results:

After the first prototype based on our research was ready, we conducted user testing and received positive feedback from potential users.

With two iterations, the product was ready to adopt its initial visual style.

 

Additionally, a design system was created along with a comprehensive set of guidelines for developers.

Result
We obtained a watch application that was user-friendly for all age groups and battery-friendly. The mobile applications were synchronized and designed following the same principles and styling.